Let's talk about the differentiation strategy.
It is important that you understand very
well what it consists of and how
to carry it out.
As you can see, Porter said there
are two sources of competitive advantage.
The first is the low cost and the low cost,
which we have seen.
And, on the other hand, to find differentiation.
And in addition, you can look
for differentiation in all
market segments or you can
sit in a niche, in a particular
segment.
It is important to understand
the criteria for a segmentation
strategy.
And the main criterion is that you
have to identify some factor
in which you have to be the best.
You don't have to be the best in everything,
right?
You have to identify a factor
you have to focus on, be very
good and your customers value
it, right?
That's what will allow you to
successfully implement the
differentiation strategy.
Customers need to value it and
they have to be willing to
pay for it.
It is important that you transmit at
a higher price because you have
to keep in mind that usually to be
good at something, to be better than
others, you'll have to invest
more than others.
This usually leads to a
higher cost structure.
Therefore, it has to be transmitted
at a higher price.
As we said, the differentiation
strategy can be carried out in
all segments of the market and
you will understand it well
with an example.
The Mercedes Benz.
Mercedes Benz has compact cars,
has all-terrain cars, has family
members, has sports
cars, etc.
We have cars for all segments.
It is a competition in differentiation.
Customers choose Mercedes
not by price, but by
brand, car characteristics,
etc.
However, in the same sector there
are companies that play in
differentiation but in small niches.
A good example would be
Ferrari.
Ferrari is only aimed at people with
a lot of money and also those who
are lovers of the engine and
speed, etc.
What is the key to this
strategy of focusing on a small
segment like Ferrari?
If you want to have a competitive advantage
in that segment, because it
is easier for you to know
that niche very well with which
you have a very close relationship.
For Ferrari it is easier
to meet the needs of its target
audience, of these people with
a lot of money than for Mercedes.
Mercedes is more focused,
it is in all segments.
Let's see what are the benefits
of the differentiation strategy
over the low cost, because
it has some benefits.
I think there is one very important to
understand and is that when you
compete in differentiation, in principle
your competition, the competitive
struggle will be less.
And the more differentiated you are,
the less.
You will also be aware of the
automotive industry.
We will compare the case of
the super-luxury car segment
as could be in this case Ferrari
and Lamborghini.
And on the other hand there is a normal
car segment in which very
many brands compete and we will put
ourselves in the skin of a buyer.
If you are going to buy a
normal car of 30,000 euros, imagine
a SUV of 30,000 euros, what
you do is usually compare
all brands, compare
prices, compare
features, etc.
It is a very rational process in
which you have a lot of information
and in which all brands are
competing for you, offer you
discounts, etc.
Now, let's go to the
sports car buyer.
The decision is different and
the competition between manufacturers
is different.
Lamborghini and Ferrari do not compete
with offers, etc.
Why is?
The Ferrari is the Ferrari,
the Lamborghini is the Lamborghini,
and the Ferrari is
the Lamborghini.
All this makes the margin, as
your differentiation is greater,
your margin usually usually
is greater.
Because the customer is less
price sensitive and because you
wear less in the competitive
struggle with the rest.
Another factor that is consequence is that
you usually have more loyal customers.
As you get more differentiated,
you usually have more
loyal customers.
And if we go to the opposite,
to the absolute commodity, customers
are very unfaithful, as we
talked in the low cost strategy.
If you buy a cheap one, you will be
able to buy the cheapest one, right?
And finally, to understand the strategy
of differentiation well, when
does it make sense to opt for differentiation?
Well, in principle, it is something
you should already understand because
we study it in external analysis, in
principle it makes more sense, there
is more space for differentiation
in some sectors than in
others.
There are sectors that are more diverse.
We will go to an extreme case also,
in the case of the sector that is
not differentiated, the commoditized
sector, such as the raw
materials.
Well, if there are many competitors
offering wood, for example, the
differentiation is very low and
there is little space for differentiation
because they all offer the
same and basically because
the customer wants to pay
the lowest price, usually.
There is very little room for
differentiation.
And now let's compare it to a
sector, for example, that of
luxury watches.
The space for differentiation
is maximum in this
case.
The customer is looking for something else,
it is a brand, it is design, it is
prestige, etc.